[MUSIC]
Today's video will show you how to install
virtualization software that will allow
you to install guest operating systems and
also how to install Ubuntu Linux.
To get started,
let's go to virtualbox.org.
And click on Downloads.
This is the virtualization software
that we're going to be using.
And then you select your platform,
in this case I'm using Windows as
my host operating system and so
I would click this link here.
You could also install VirtualBox
on Linux, on Mac, or even Solaris.
I've already downloaded this.
So I'm going to just pull it up right
now and then double-click to run it.
And I'm just going to accept the defaults.
Click Next Next again.
That looks fine,
Go in to click Install and
do the same thing for
all the messages like this in the future.
Click Finish to complete the installation.
And then we'll restart later.
So the next piece of software we need
to install Ubuntu is Ubuntu itself.
So we'll go to ubuntu.com,
find the download link.
And then here we have a couple
of different options.
The primary options are Ubuntu Desktop and
Ubuntu Server.
The primary difference between Desktop and
Server is that the desktop
edition provides a graphical user
environment, whereas the server does not.
Ubuntu Server is best for things like
web servers or database servers or
file servers.
It's going to be an installation of the
operating system where you don't sit down
in front of it and use graphical programs.
Ubuntu Desktop, however, is for just that.
So I will click Download Ubuntu,
and take the default 64-bit.
I've already done this
to save us some time.
So I'll just close
the web browser here and
you can see that I've downloaded Ubuntu.
I'll go ahead and start VirtualBox.
And create a new container or
virtual machine for
our Ubuntu operating system installation.
We can see here that is asks for
three bits of information.
The Name, the Type and the Version.
So, I'm going to name it ubuntudesktop.
And then as I type that in there it
automatically selected Linux as the type
and Ubuntu as the version.
If it didn't you can simply
use the drop down boxes and
select whatever is appropriate.
The minimum amount of RAM
recommended is 512 megabytes.
I have plenty to use here,
so I'm gonna dedicate about half my
resources to this virtual machine.
So I'll use 4096 megabytes or
four gigabytes.
Next, we need to create
a virtual hard drive.
Click on Create, and
the default of VDI is fine.
Especially if you're not going
to be using this disk image with
other virtualization software.
You have two choices here.
One is dynamically allocated and
the other is fixed size.
If your primary concern is
about preserving disk space or
using as little disk space as possible,
choose Dynamically Allocated.
However if you're looking for
performance use Fixed Size.
That's a fine name.
I will specify 100 gigabytes for
my hard drive,
although eight gigabytes is
sufficient to install Ubuntu too.
I like having some additional space.
So now we have our virtual machine.
Next, we need to install Ubuntu.
Lets power on the virtual
machine to install Ubuntu.
Click Start or you can even right-click
and click Start there, either one is fine.
And now it will ask us for
the Ubuntu image that we downloaded.
I'll select where I downloaded it
on my computer and click Start.
We have two options here.
One is Try Ubuntu and
the second one is Install Ubuntu.
Try Ubuntu simply runs the operating
system in memory and lets you try it out.
However, Install Ubuntu actually
writes to your hard disk.
In this case it's going to write to the
virtual hard disk in the virtual machine,
so we're not gonna lose any data,
for example,
override our current operating system.
So, that's what we're going to do here,
Install.
I'm going to click Continue and
accept the defaults here, but
you can install third party software that
allows you to play mp3's, for example.
And you could also download any patches or
bug fixes or other updates for
the Ubuntu operating system by clicking
Download updates while installing.
I'll click Continue.
And I'm going to just erase this disk.
Again, it's a virtual disk
that we just created.
And then you can click on the map for
your time zone.
I'm just gonna leave it at Chicago.
And you can choose your keyboard here.
And just fill out your
account information.
And click Continue.
The installation will take
several minutes to complete.
So I'm just going to fast
forward from this point on.
Once the installation completes, your job
is done if you're running on physical
hardware such as a desktop,
a laptop, or a server.
However, since we're
using a virtual machine,
we need to perform one additional step.
And that additional step is to
install some software that helps
Linux understand the virtual
hardware that it's working with.
And that piece of software is called
Guest Additions in VirtualBox.
Now that the installation is finished,
I'm going to power on the virtual machine.
You can highlight it and click Start,
or right-click and click Start.
Going to log in with a password
that I used during installation.
And next, since this is a virtual machine,
we need to insert the Guest Addition CD
image and install the Guest Additions.
Then, we'll click Run And
it will ask for our password again.
So we'll type that in and
click Authenticate.
And we'll let
the VirtualBox Guest Additions install.
Okay, that's complete.
We'll just hit Return or press Enter.
And then now I'm going to
restart this virtual machine,
so we can use the Guest Additions.
And I'll click Restart.
Going to log in again with my account.
And there that's so much better though.
Graphics are filling up my display and
Ubuntu is installed.
[MUSIC]